README.md, before:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Rishiprasad Raut  
### MERN Stack Developer | React | Node.js | MongoDB

I build full-stack web applications using **React, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB**.

I focus on:
- Clean and responsive user interfaces
- Secure REST APIs and authentication
- Scalable backend architecture
- Writing readable, maintainable code

I am actively looking for **MERN Stack Developer opportunities** where I can contribute, learn fast, and grow with the team.

---

## 🚀 Languages & Tools I Use

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/express/express-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-icon.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/git/git-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/getpostman/getpostman-icon.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/figma/figma-icon.svg" width="40"/>
</p>

---

## 🤖 AI Tools I Use

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/develop/icons/openai.svg" width="40" title="ChatGPT"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/develop/icons/githubcopilot.svg" width="40" title="GitHub Copilot"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/simple-icons/simple-icons/develop/icons/googlegemini.svg" width="40" title="Google Gemini"/>
</p>

I use AI tools like **ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, and Google Gemini** to:
- Improve development speed and productivity
- Debug and understand complex logic
- Write cleaner and optimized code
- Assist in API design and problem-solving

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

**Frontend**
- React.js
- Redux Toolkit
- HTML5, CSS3
- Tailwind CSS

**Backend**
- Node.js
- Express.js
- REST APIs
- JWT Authentication

**Database**
- MongoDB
- Mongoose

**Tools & Practices**
- Git & GitHub
- Postman
- MVC Architecture
- Async/Await

---

## 📌 Projects

### 🔹 Multi-Company SaaS Application (MERN)
- Designed a multi-tenant system where multiple companies use the same app securely.
- Implemented authentication and role-based access.
- Ensured proper data isolation using MongoDB schemas.
- Built reusable React components.

### 🔹 Media Search Application
- Built a search app for photos, videos, and GIFs using external APIs.
- Implemented global state management using Redux Toolkit.
- Focused on performance and clean UI.

---

## 🎯 What I’m Looking For
- MERN Stack Developer / Full Stack Developer role  
- Startup or product-based company  
- Hands-on development and learning environment  

---

## 🌐 Connect With Me
<p>
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/rishiprasad-raut/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white"/>
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats
<p>
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Rishiprasadraut&show_icons=true" />
</p>

<p>
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=Rishiprasadraut" />
</p>

---

⭐ *If you are hiring or know someone who is, feel free to connect with me.*

Commit message:

Revise AI tools section and clean up README
Updated AI tools section with badges and improved formatting. Removed old project descriptions and adjusted GitHub stats section.

README.md, after:

# 👋 Hi, I'm Rishiprasad Raut  
### MERN Stack Developer | React | Node.js | MongoDB

I build full-stack web applications using **React, Node.js, Express, and MongoDB**.

I focus on:
- Clean and responsive user interfaces
- Secure REST APIs and authentication
- Scalable backend architecture
- Writing readable, maintainable code

I am actively looking for **MERN Stack Developer opportunities** where I can contribute, learn fast, and grow with the team.

---

## 🚀 Languages & Tools I Use

<p align="left">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/javascript/javascript-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/react/react-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/nodejs/nodejs-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/express/express-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/mongodb/mongodb-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/redux/redux-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/tailwindcss/tailwindcss-icon.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/html5/html5-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/css3/css3-original-wordmark.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/devicons/devicon/master/icons/git/git-original.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/getpostman/getpostman-icon.svg" width="40"/>
  <img src="https://www.vectorlogo.zone/logos/figma/figma-icon.svg" width="40"/>
</p>

---

## 🤖 AI Tools I Use

![ChatGPT](https://img.shields.io/badge/ChatGPT-00A67E?style=for-the-badge&logo=openai&logoColor=white)
![GitHub Copilot](https://img.shields.io/badge/GitHub_Copilot-000000?style=for-the-badge&logo=githubcopilot&logoColor=white)
![Google Gemini](https://img.shields.io/badge/Google_Gemini-4285F4?style=for-the-badge&logo=google&logoColor=white)

I use AI tools like **ChatGPT, GitHub Copilot, and Google Gemini** to:
- Improve development speed and productivity  
- Debug and understand complex logic  
- Write cleaner and optimized code  
- Assist in API design and problem-solving  

---

## 🛠 Tech Stack

**Frontend**
- React.js
- Redux Toolkit
- HTML5, CSS3
- Tailwind CSS

**Backend**
- Node.js
- Express.js
- REST APIs
- JWT Authentication

**Database**
- MongoDB
- Mongoose

**Tools & Practices**
- Git & GitHub
- Postman
- MVC Architecture
- Async/Await

---

## 🎯 What I’m Looking For
- MERN Stack Developer / Full Stack Developer role  
- Startup or product-based company  
- Hands-on development and learning environment  

---

## 🌐 Connect With Me
<p>
  <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/rishiprasad-raut/" target="_blank">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/LinkedIn-0A66C2?style=for-the-badge&logo=linkedin&logoColor=white"/>
  </a>
</p>

---

## 📊 GitHub Stats

<p>
  <img src="https://github-readme-stats.vercel.app/api?username=Rishiprasadraut&show_icons=true&theme=default" />
</p>

<p>
  <img src="https://github-readme-streak-stats.herokuapp.com/?user=Rishiprasadraut&theme=default" />
</p>

---

⭐ *If you are hiring or know someone who is, feel free to connect with me.*
